Note: Commands need to be run as root, log in as root or use sudo.

1. Set up masquerading on the host. Eventually this should be added to the
   init.d scripts.

   sudo ./netsetup

2. Create a root image
   The loadroot command will build a root disc image called jaunty.img
   from a bzip2'd tarball.

   sudo ./loadroot jaunty.18-Sep-09.bz2

3. Create home and swap images.
   These images are shared between all UML instances using copy-on-write
   files, so this command is only needed once.

   sudo ./mkimages

4. Link a UML linux kernel
   Kernels are stored in the "kernels" directory. The current kernel is
   linux-2.6.30.5.

   ln -s kernels/linux-2.6.30.5 linux

5. Assembling a scraper disc image.
   UML instances run with the scraper.img disc image mounted read-only on
   /scraper. This should contain all scraper-specific files. To assemble
   this image, when no UML instances are running, use:

   sudo ./mkscraper

   This script will need extending as changes are made to the scraper
   system.

6. Create a UML instance. The argument is used to construct the UML's IP
   address, and should be in the range 1...99. The UML will get IP address
   192.168.254.X; when running the host will get a tap interface with
   address 192.168.254.Y where Y=X+100. The files for the UML box will
   appear in a directory "umlZZZ" where ZZZ is N left-zero-padded. The
   script checks that the UML instance does not currently exist.

   sudo ./cloneuml 1

7. Boot the UML instance
   The UML instance is run inside a screen session, so control will return
   to the shell. Use the screen command to connect to the session.

   sudo ./bootuml 1
   sudo screen -r

   If there are multiple UML instances running, they can be identified using
   the screen -ls command:

   sudo screen -ls

   Instances will appear with names PID.ZZZ where PID is the process
   identifier of the top-level UML process. To connect to a specific UML:

   sudo screen -r PID.ZZZ               or
   sudo screen -r ZZZ

   The root user on the UML instance has no password. To exit from screen
   type ctrl-A. To shutdown a UML instance use the halt command and wait
   for the instance to halt, whence the screen will terminate and control
   returns to the shell.

8. Boot all UML instances
   All non-running UML instance can be booted with the bootall command. There
   will be a 10-second pause between each in order to avoid resource
   contention problems.

   sudo ./bootall

9. Halting all UML instances
   Providing that the UML images are correctly running the controller process,
   the haltall command can be used. This does not need to be run as root.

   ./haltall

   If the UML instance is not running the controller, then either connect to
   it and issue the "halt" command (make sure this is not the host!) or kill
   it stone dead.

10.Altering the root image
   The UML instances run with a root image plus a copy-on-write file, so
   that changes to the root image can be undone by deleting the COW file.
   To make changes to the root image (eg., to install a new package), use
   the rawuml command.

   sudo ./rawuml

   This runs UML instance 1 (ie, from uml001). All COW files on all images
   are deleted, and the root image is run without a COW file. The instance
   is not run inside a screen session.
